welcome so down it down down below all
the lights how many people were here for
the project builder session just raise
your hands excellent so more than half
of you development tools are one of the
most important aspects of building the
new operating system and making
successful applications and in that
direction I want to just introduce very
rapidly on real Amuro manager of the
interface builders group and he's going
to tell you all about our world class
leading aqua UI design tool ok right on
the podium good afternoon
so I want to start by pointing out that
today we have a wide audience here we
have developer which would stuck it to
you that the face builder many years ago
with next set next steps then open step
and now is Coco we have also developer
that just starting to use the toughest
builder or are thinking about using
cocoa and use not a face builder we also
have cabin developer now we can use
interface builder so as you can see a
wide audience of developers with
different need different and theorized
so when we're thinking about that we
decided to organize off talk around
several several topics we want first to
answer some of the frequently asked
questions questions are coming over and
over of onam detailed mailing list we
want to show you the new feature we've
we've added to NTFS build this year I
want to give you some tips how to better
user interface builder and also give you
some demos so this is the roadmap are
going to be following today I'm gonna
first introduced quickly what is NTFS
builder and then go III be for short
I'll be using the world I be sometimes
for this interface builder I will go
then who the three steps it takes to
develop an application using at a phase
builder first you have to let you how to
use an NTFS
then you have to connect your user
interface to your code and then you have
to load the user interface in your
application I'm going to go through some
tips and tricks
talked about neat tool
and talk about our debt schedule so
let's stuff is what isn't a face builder
interface builder is a per user
interface builder tool we have one tool
at Apple that covers all of converts
this isn't a face builder interface
builder has been tuned to create a quad
compliant user interfaces for both cocoa
and carbon and also interface builder
originally was a cocoa tool we know
support carbon as a first class citizen
both cocoa and carbon are fully
supported by a TFS builder we're
spending as much time on both framework
to support both framework so a TFS
builder
it's a cocoa application running on Mac
OS 10 which FS builder you create what
we call nib files at a phase below does
not generate code we don't generate
objective-c code or java code we
generate what you call a nib file that
contains the description of your user
interface I show you two different nib
file a cocoa nib file and the cabinet
file although they are the same that
same structure internally they are quite
different and you cannot use a cocoa nib
in the common application or carbon even
a cocoa application a cocoa nib is a is
archive objects archive cocoa objects
can be the active objects or it can be
also your own objects so it's enough
type of objects the carbon nib is more
of a description of your user rtfs
carbon is not an objective oriented
framework so the carbon needs are more
than a template for your user at your
face also I want to point out that in a
cocoa nib you have more than simply
object you also have the connection
between those objects how those objects
interact between each other as you can
see the cocoa nib and cavalry bad either
build different also the cabin needs are
XML based while the cocoa nib are still
using a binary format so from a cocoa
nib you can set a cocoa application
either in Objective C or in Java because
we don't generate code the language you
use to you to develop your application I
won't say we don't care but it's not
important for us you can also create a
java current web object application and
there are several session this week that
show
I would use interface builder for using
web objects with a carbon nibble you can
get a cabin application and you can
target both back OS 10 and Mac OS 9 the
code that allows us to get a new file
and recreate your user interface is
available in both Mac OS 10 and Mac OS 9
I should have said 8 & 9 because in fact
we we support also 8 6 so you can target
both platform you have to do your
development on 10 but you can target
both environments the let's stuff is how
do we artifice builder is a building to
do the thing we want to do first we were
to lay out your user an idea that you
want to put button in a window you want
to edit your menus and things like that
so how you do that
we have a wide variety of layout
activities and well first one I want to
talk about is what we call guides if you
use that if has builder several years
ago there was a feature called
the grid and we discovered that it was
not working very very well and it was
not working very well also with aqua
because it was hard to align object with
aqua on a grid so we replace the grid by
something we call guides we think it's a
much faster way to align object much
faster and attitude way to align objects
and we have two type of guides we are
what we call the aqua guides and what we
call the user guides so let's start with
the Aqua guides the Aqua guide
implements the Equality I really would
guide lines that means that this is a
way for you to be sure that you are
putting your UI at the right place in
your window yeah latitude in your window
so in the picture number one here I am
putting a button and hanging a button
inside the window and as I move this
button close to the edge of the window
lines we show up and show you what what
is the right distance for this button to
this window you can put it anywhere you
want but since we show you where it
would be the best place for this button
and as you move closer to those guides
the button will snap to those lines in
the picture number two I'm moving a
second button close to the first button
and something we tell you where the what
is the right distance between the second
button and the first button
the user the user guides are similar to
Zack wise except that it's you can do
whatever you want you can put them
anywhere you want in a window you have
vertical guide horizontal guides we can
put as many as you want you define them
they are said we don't say it with a nib
file so the next time you open the nib
those guys will be loaded and something
here when you move an object a UI
element close to those lines they will
snap to the tools to those guides this
is useful for example to create
templates you want all your different
dialogues to look the same and you want
to be able to put guides there too to
have a way to have your UI looking the
same then we have what we call a effect
which is it is not a cocoa know a cabin
notion it is a pure IP notion the there
is a difference there is a difference
between cocoa and carbon how are they
are the drawing UI elements on on the
cocoa everything is drawn inside the
frame although there's the shadow of the
aqua butter NextEra add the whole inside
the the frame on the on the cabin side
the shadow is sometimes the woman
outside of the control bounds of the
control and yak the Aqua guidelines give
you some number of saying a button
should be not even remember 20 pixel
high so the lady I would take matches
those those aqua guidelines it's a
visual bounding box of an object you can
turn them on and off by using command L
so in this image I have it was those
ahead border or on your objects and also
show you the baseline if you have a
project that's text but it's very handy
to see where where a control hands
because of the unity are using the
backward and the shadow sometime is hard
to figure out where your control really
hand we also distance measurement this
is a way to measure distance between two
objects or between an object in this
container so the way you do use distance
measurement is are by selecting an
object and as you press the option key
and as you move your mouse above other
objects we show you that those line with
a distance very handy feature to figure
out what is the distance between two
buttons or things like that we have also
a full layout menu with plenty of
options
usually those menu items act on the
group of objects so you can align all
the edge of the left edge of those
objects or the right edges we can make
colors you can make holes you can change
the Z ordering of objects send them to
the back move them to the front very
similar to Tuhoe program and also you
can make object the same size or make
them fit to the content of this subject
so different options there we have an
alignment panel which is as some of the
same function it is at the layout menu
plus some other one just a different way
to present those options we also have
can you change the the clock is still 75
thank you
I want to say you have to look all day
long we also have a test mode which is
not really a facilities but it's a way
to see your application
Laki we will be at one time I'm sure
you've all seen the demonstration of a
during the keynote Monday where we were
able to drill a full iMovie like
application and run it inside a surface
builder without click using PBE or
comparing anything you're bringing your
code inside interface builder and be
able to get the full application and
test it with in interface builder test
mode would work of the boat for both
cocoa and cabin containers
so HFS builder unforce the notion of a a
view year rocky cocoa as a national
overview the building block of the user
at your face and view as a view as a
super view we can have sub views so in
the original toolbox Mac toolbox there
was no notion of embedding except a
button was inside the window but that
was I would say there was no notion of
embedding with escapa now we have also
embedding and objectively embedded into
a group box and at the fest builder
maintained this year a key of UI
elements so if you have a good box and
you want to put a button inside this
Google box you have to be we have to put
it Eddy inside the box up just on top of
the box and to do that right now you
have to double click on the the good box
and you get this ring around the good
bugs and says the editor on this good
box is open and now you can divide
object inside and as you move the box
if this thing inside the box we move
along with your box what's what we do
clipping correctly and everything like
that so this is a very important notion
if you are using tab view good box you
need to open the editor before you can
drag something inside those containers
so activating Scott Earth's on the on
stage you're going to show you some of
those negativities right
okay so the first thing I do is I'm
gonna give just a tiny little tour of IB
since I have a feeling a few of you have
any of her even opened the application
this is our starting point dialog you
can see that you can make cocoa cocoa
applications and you can also make
carbon applications I'm gonna go ahead
and make a cocoa one although everything
I'm going to show applies to carbon as
well this is our design window
you can drag widgets from our palette
over here onto it and then you can
change their attributes their size their
connections all kinds of things using
this inspector palette over here or info
palette sorry we have a document window
here which contains our top-level
objects we have a window and a main menu
and then there's also the files owner
and first-responder for cocoa which
we'll talk about later so now let's talk
a little bit about some of the new
layout facilities we have I'm gonna go
over it pretty quick since unrecovered
it fairly well I'm gonna drag a button
out and these little blue lines appear
and it'll snap to where the human
interface guidelines say that button
should where that button should be I
know if anybody saw there was an aqua
talk earlier or if it's if it's going to
be there's this great slide where
there's this dialogue I lay it out and
there's something like 40 little numbers
of where everything should be lined up
and when they came to that came to us
with with those with those guidelines we
were we were pretty spooked by the whole
thing so what we do is we compile all
those numbers into the application so it
knows for example and I'm gonna show the
measurement lines by holding the option
key down that a button should be 20
pixels from the right and 20 pixels from
the bottom so now I'll drag another one
out and just like on reso Turnus slides
it'll snap and it knows that it's 12
pixels from here and then also 20 pixels
from the bottom interesting note with
the measurement lines if I hold the
option key down over the selected button
it shows which guides are apply to that
widget so we doesn't we do more than
that we know how to do like tabs like
for example tabs can be all the way to
the left or they can be over a little
bit we'll drag that down here
they know how far they they should be
above a button which is completely
different than how far a button should
be from say a pop-up button I'm going to
double click on this to open the editor
and on reman ssin that you have to do
that from containment for containment
I'm happy to say that in a future
version this nonsense is all gone and
you won't have to to worry about that
and it'll work as it should have 11
years ago so so I'll drag this out we
one thing that we do is indention this
is really great for preferences
dialogues and things like that where you
have a header and then you have a lot of
checkboxes below I'll drag out a radio
button group and as you can see it knows
that it's automatically aligned down
there I'll switch the tabs I'm gonna
bring out a button and I'll make a
matrix of buttons by holding down the
option key something we hear asked a lot
how do I make a matrix well you hold the
option key down and you just grow it I'm
gonna turn on the layout rectangles and
you can see here if I make this a little
bit longer then we have the baselines
for all widgets that contain text
elements this is great because if I want
to drag out another message text see how
the blue lines align up to all of the
base lines will automatically snap so
that the last thing I want to show you
is user the user guides so I go to the
guides menu I can go add vertical guide
and then these little blue jobbies they
work just like you would see in a page
layout program the yellow up above
measures the distance like right now it
says 56 so it's 56 pixels from the right
of the screen and 424 from the left so
we'll line this up to our buttons here
so they go up and down this is a great
way to line stuff up across container
boundaries so say I want to drag out a
switch or something it'll automatically
switch there lay in there if I don't
want it to stick to the guy and say you
have a whole lot of widgets on the
screen and you find the guides to be
kind of a pain what you can do is you
can hold the command key down and it'll
move without sticking to them so some
what some people find nice to do is turn
the guides off completely and then just
know when they know that they really
want to be laying them out they just
hold the command key down that's all
about I have to say say that have to say
about that
so we've seen how to layout your user
interface and what the facilities we
have interface builder to do that now
let's talk about how do you connect your
user at your face to your code you want
you have a pattern you want to the user
click on the button you want something
to happen so in the real facilities we
didn't make any distinction between
cocoa and carbon they work the same way
there is no difference as far except for
the the UI elements you have available
on the palette there are no differences
between cocoa and carbon as far lega
lega lega interface builder all the same
features when we come to how to connect
your user interface to your code this is
different Carbon cocoa different
frameworks carbon is as is a CPI
procedural framework add well whether
cocoa is an object-oriented framework
any relies heavily on a dynamic feature
objective-c so ii thought i did it
different framework let's tap is cabin
the thing you have to understand is IP
does not change the plumbing model of
carbon if you know how to use carbon
today you can use a checklist video
immediately there is we don't invent a
new way to program carbon this is just a
better way to layout your user at your
face and to package your user at your
face it makes it easy to use the carbon
level model we have some features in IB
and make it easier to you for you to use
recovery mode model but you don't have
to forget you the cabin API T is a semi
API so there are two things you may want
to do as a cabin developer you may want
to get a reference on the UI element and
you want maybe also to what you want to
get a pointer on the button or a text
field and you want also to react to some
user action so let's first talk about
getting a reference to a UI element so
what we do in our head builder you build
your user at your face
you bring my nose and for window and you
can just assign controller ID to control
or menu IDs to menu black you will do
anywhere else and in your code called
the appropriate API the appropriate
cable API to get a reference to your
account whole like going get controller
by ID or to a menu by Korean get many
restaurants get on your wife or etc so
nothing very unusual
to react to user action kappa disease
notion of a common tiny now you can si
the comment ID to some UI elements so
you can assign a comment idea to a menu
item or to a control and in your code
implement the event and we'll have to
process those commands there is a talk
right after this one about the event
manager and if you want to learn more
about the event manager stick around so
as you see nothing very unusual just a
new way to layout your user at your face
and set up to user at your face - so you
can connect your users if that's your
code so I bring back Scott on stage to
show you some of those features you miss
me ok ok so I'm gonna go back to our
starting point dialog and this time I'm
going to create a carbon application I'm
not going to show you so much not really
gonna show you any code will let the
carbon folks do that in the next next
session but I want to give you sort of a
tour of when they talk about you know
the control ID and where to put your h:i
commands I want to show you where those
are interface builder once again we have
the same we have a design window we have
a palette all of your your favorite
Carbon widgets are represented here so
I'm gonna drag out a button and as you
can see the guides work in carbon just
as well as they work in cocoa I'm gonna
bring up the inspector here and I'm
gonna switch to the control pain and
here's the signature that you would use
by something like like in get control by
ID you fill up a little struck this is
you're gonna type something in there and
you remember it you're gonna put it in
that struck and here's the H I command
so you you've seen us do in demos past
where we put quit and it's automatically
been sent to the nearest handler that
listens to it
so what you would probably do is you
would put some sort of command of your
own working in there and you listen to
it in a window controller or something
like that
that's all I have to show for that one
it's a quickie
clean this up for me thanks
so a quick demo on cabin as I say there
is a choke right here right after this
talk about cabin even manager and you'll
be able to learn more about how to use
the cabin even manager cuckoo now there
are four important cuckoo ID concept
that you need to understand to be able
to use IB and cuckoo those those four
notions are the notion of outlet target
action files owner and first responder
those are very important to understand
because you have to use that become just
say oh I don't know I'm gonna skip files
on I don't want to know about this one
you have to understand all of that so
let's let's start so an outlet analysis
an essence variable that points to
another object just an SS variable just
another fancy word for Aniston's
variable to point to an another object
that means that unless an outlet cannot
be an int or float it has to be a point
to another object what do we call them
an outlet because this is a specialist
and some variable that you are not
setting this value back by code by
writing code you're setting this value
of this random variable within a FS
builder by making a connection between
an essence variable of a class and some
other object you're making you can set
the value of this outlet so here I have
a class food that has two instance
variable or window in a button and I can
in a FS builder set the value of this
subject with not access builder without
writing any code so at one time the
subject will have those values their
target an action target is an object
responsible for responding to a user's
action just an object the action is a
method in this object that specify what
the object is to do so a lot of object
need kids have two instance variable
called target in action and as control
and spa new item I have those kind of
instance variable
those 2,000 variable are like outlet we
can set them using at a phase builder
the first one the target is a pointer to
an object
when I press this button I want this
object to do something and the action is
I want C subject to do something I want
to do is this I want to execute this
piece of code so in this case the target
is a pointer to this subject and the
action is the method within this object
that's going to do something when you
press the button but the reaction have a
specific pattern they do something with
one parameter which is the sender and
it's in this case of a button the sender
will busy the button itself so as I say
what is the whole butterface builder is
regarding outlets and target action is
to graphically connect those outlets and
those target action together all those
connections are saved in the nib file
along with audio objects and at one time
all those connections are put back
together like if you were doing it by
program except you don't do any
programming here I would let subsets
control menu item are ready to trigger
the appropriate code this is what outlet
action and target actions are now first
owner and first responder the two big
one if you look if you look at a
document window at a phase below you see
all those icons and there are two
important icon in there which are the
files owner and the first responder and
their name is grayed out because you
can't change the name of those objects
but those are not real objecting in a
nibble
they are just proxy objects they are
standing from so from some other object
that are outside of the nib file those
objects are not instantiated with all
the other object that you have in your
nib file in an if I grab a window you
have a menu excetera
whose object that coming back to life
when you wrote the nib but those two
objects are not they already exist
before you started to load a nib file so
I'll just proxy object the files owner
as I said just n distinct object its
external to the nib file is already an
instance of this object somewhere in
your application B even before the nib
was loaded and you're passing this
object to the the Col that allow us to
load a new file in this case we are
using load nib name passing the name of
the nib and passing this files owner
what so all of this
foreigner it's always to channel
messages between objects that enact
light from the nib and object that I
would start your application
imagine your nib as little bubble of
object and if there was no file on there
would be no way to reach what's inside
this bubble you need some some way to to
hitch inside the nib file when the nib
file is loaded and this object is the
files owner first responder it's also a
proxy object means it's not as sensitive
in your nib file the first object the
first responder is more of a status
given to an object than a real object
the definition is that it's the first
object in the responder chain to respond
to a message so as I say the files owner
with the real object the first responder
is what it is different object depending
on the situation of your application
where you where your application is what
you have been doing with your
application
so let's also let me explain what a
responder Chinese first I'm getting
confused here so let's explain first
what the responder Chinese so I have a
vast monitor which is not completely
right it's just for an example it's a
lot of missing object in this way
smaller chain but is just to show you
how things works so I have an
application I have this application as
one window and inside this window I have
a control which here is a text field and
the user is typing in this text field as
a user type in the text field we pull
down the menu and choose hide window so
the high window miss a menu item was
connected to the first responder so the
high window message is sent and he goes
to the object that acts currently as the
focus which is a text field the text
field is knows nothing about hide window
so it says it pass it to the next
responder which is the window and the
window says yes I know how to hide my
window so hide the window so by
connecting to the first responder you're
connecting to whatever objects that are
currently in the responder chain that
can answer this message so this is a
very useful concept the first responder
is useful to collect line and action to
enhance unspecified instance of a target
you have ten textfield in the window you
don't want to connect your cut copy
paste when you attempt to every Texan in
your window you just want to say connect
it to the whatever text field ask you
what he has a focus and you connect it
to the first responder you can also use
the first responder to connect an object
to another object outside of your nib
file as long as this object is inside
the target chain so far we do use that
with a port for any application which is
never in a nibble but you may want
sometimes to connect a menu item to some
action in your application a good way to
do that might be to use the first
responder to connect your menu I turn to
the first responder and the application
will get this message if nobody else is
getting it so now being squatters back
on stage to the big demo this one's hard
so the first thing I do is show you the
application that we're gonna build to
demonstrate how to add an action to
first responder and how to connect your
interface to it we're gonna do it with
this little application here if you look
on the window on the right it's the
frontmost window which means that you
can consider it to be the lowest object
in the responder chain so when I say
toggle picture that there's a message
that we're going to with there's an
action rather that we're going to add to
first responder that is implemented by
this Windows controller and so because
this window is the frontmost window it's
going to get that action first and it's
going to toggle the picture this will
hide this let's go to our project
there's a little bit of code that you
need to see this is our NS application
subclass all that's going to do is it's
going to create two of our toggle
controller classes and those those
toggle controller classes are what
create the window and handle messages
that come come to in front so this is
the the header for the toggle controller
there's two things I want you to see
here we declare an outlet to what's
going to be an NS image view called
picture outlet this header file also
implements our action called toggle
picture action or toggle picture we have
these two little blurbs here called IB
outlet and IB action which actually sort
of no loud they don't really do anything
but what that allows that Ivy to do is
look for your header and parse those
those these outlets and actions in we
have two nibs we have a main menu and we
have a toggle window so let's first take
a look at our window you saw this
earlier there's no picture in it right
now because the code actually puts that
in what we want to do is we want to hook
this window up to our toggle controller
code before we can do that we have to
tell the nib what is a toggle controller
so we go to the classes pane here we go
to the classes menu and we say read
files
and what we can do is we can find our
header file so here it is toggle
controller and we can parse it and if
you look down here it's realized oh this
is here's toggle controller and not only
that but it's an NS window controller
it's already figured out from the header
what type of subclass it is I'm gonna
click the little actions Deeley here and
we can see that it's found our picture
outlet it's also found the window outlet
that comes from NS window controller and
it's also found our toggle picture
action and then another action show
window that's also implemented by NS
window controller so we've told the nib
hey here's what a toggle controller is
so now we need to tell the nib that
you're actually going to be loaded by a
toggle controller your files owner is a
toggle controller right now it's just it
doesn't know so it's just at the NS
object if I scroll down we can actually
click the toggle controller here in the
files owner attributes pane on the
inspector so now that we can now that
we've told the name pay files owner is
the toggle controller we can go about
making connections to it so I hold the
control key down and I drag from files
owner and the first one I'm gonna do is
our picture control and you see how it
highlights it it's going to bring up the
connections inspector and here we go
here's the picture outlet so I'll click
that and I'll click connect now we need
to tell now that we put the picture
control up we've we've done sort of all
the connections for our toggle
controller we need to go about and do
the ones that NS window controller wants
namely it wants to know what window it's
supposed to be controlling so I'll hold
the control key down again and this time
I'm going to drag from files owner to
the window so if you look right here in
the connection inspector click on window
click connect so we've hooked all of our
outlets up but there's one thing we
haven't done yet we haven't inserted our
toggle controller into the responder
chain so remember how unrealistic view
of what the responder chain is well
there's one more little thing
if NS window can't respond to your
action it'll try it's what's called its
delegate and that's how we're going to
get into the responder chain we're going
to set our toggle controller to be the
delegate of those windows and how I do
that is by holding the control key
counter control key down again go from
window
two files owner and I can set its
delegate and I hit connect so that's
done I'm gonna close that now let's take
a look at our main menu nib open this up
so here's our main menu editor here's
our toggle picture command we want to
make an action you want to drag an
action from our toggle picture to the
first responder but out-of-the-box
interface builder doesn't know anything
about that action and toggle picture so
we have to tell it again so what we do
is we go to the classes pane and I'm
going all the way to the top we're first
responder lives never go to the classes
menu and I'm going to say add action and
I'm a type toggle picture all these
other ones that are in gray are sort of
convenience ones that we know that a lot
of other stuff implements and so we put
those there for you just sort of for
your convenience but we have to add this
one because like I said 11 years ago we
had no idea if somebody was going to
make something called toggle picture so
we have to do it now that we've put the
add that it added that to first
responder we can drag a connection so
once again with the ctrl key drag it
down to our first responder so we want
to set the menu items target to be
toggle picture so I hit connect and if
I've remembered my script that's all we
have to do so I'm gonna go here and I'm
gonna build it just probably kill this
one just to prove that I'm doing it and
we'll run it so here's our frontmost
window and oops I forgot to put
something up with an uppercase T what's
that you put a back st huh you type
toggle picture with a potato pockets T
indeed you were supposed to shout that
out when I did that you're not much of
an audience
uppercase T
ah there we go yeah so the only thing we
don't do is spell checking in the
control in the connections inspector
thank you so those notion of out liaise
tacit action files on our first a small
are very important
charge on the first is in first Espada
are difficult notion and and they are
quite unusual in in there are only in
the in this environment so they are
difficult notion that they are very very
powerful and you can do anything you
want with those two notions so look at
them practice
look at those occurred it's very
important to understand the notion of
files owner and first responder to
really be able to develop a cocoa
application so you've laid out your user
interface you connected your code you
user interface either for cable and
cocoa and now you want to load this user
interface it inside your application
so here again there is a difference
between cocoa and carbon in carbon that
there are no objects so you have to
explicitly load your user at your face
and get object outside of the nib in
cocoa this is more or less automatic
there is there is also also a need which
we call we call the main nib which is
automatically loaded when your
application is launched and also on it
can be loaded on demand
so let me go first explain about carbon
in carbon there is one a header the ID
cap on one time dot edge which has six
functions a very small API and this all
the the six API allows you to load a new
file and get anything outside of this
nib file windows menus etc those api's
are available on Mac OS 10 that
particular carbon framework so if you
using your linking against carbon you're
already getting those API is ready to
use and on a quest time we are Mac OS 9
and 8 should have say 8 also we are part
of carbon nip since 1.1 so you can use
nib file and use the same API the same
code to load your nib file on a 8 or 9
so here I have a typical
small application cabin application that
which by the way will run perfectly well
and what I'm doing here is that I'm
first getting a reference to an e file I
called head need reference passing the
name of the of the need file and I get
back any preference I can then ask for
the the money bar inside this nib file
and I up happens I call my money back
money bar in my nib file so I can say
set the main menu many bar using the
minibar that's inside this nibble I can
also then create a window from the nib
file sensing passing a dim electrons
passing the main window the name of the
window you want to extract and you get a
window at the rows I immediately dispose
linear fairness you should not keep
those nibbler famous around because we
are loading in some XML file etc you
want to get rid of them as soon as you
are done
the window was created invisible so now
you just say show window and the window
pops on the screen and you can go and
run go and talk and call one application
event loop and you done and this
application will run fine providing a
nib that has those two two objects that
will put a mini bar and a window on the
screen cocoa so for cocoa there is one
special need file which we call we call
the main nib file it's this nib file is
automatically loaded at lunchtime when
you launch a cocoa application the main
nib file is automatically loaded the
name doesn't have to be main you can be
anything you want you can go into
project builder
application settings tab and you can
change the name of this neighborhood
where you want
usually this nib file should contain the
money bar at least the money bar because
this is the UI that you want to come up
immediately when you launch your
application so the a good place for your
money bar is inside the main nibble the
files owner of this mainly will be the
application object because the
application is loading this nib file so
this is a good press for example if you
want to connect some money right turn to
the applicant application properly
implemented some code in your
application and you want to collect
money write em to your application you
can define those target action those
action on your
files owner which is the application and
connect your menu item to the files
owner because the fastener is the
application author hip file should be
loaded lazily you can explicitly load an
in file using NS bundle or name name
owner we have also some other API to
load deep file but this is one the one
of the most use you can also use a test
window controller is it's a class that
you should try to use whenever possible
if you the window controller the window
controller is created outside of the nib
and the fair owner of this nib will be
the window controller we've just added a
new sample in the city you got at the
conference called simple multi window
it's a cocoa sample that shows you how
to create an application with beautiful
nib and how to use window controller so
now I'd like to go and cover some tips
and tricks on things that you need to
know about on the test builder that will
make it make your life much easier and I
was - so let's go some tips and tricks
here first an important one do not put
all your UI in one big giant niba
this is not the way nib file should be
used this is very important for people
cabin developer which are used to a
resource for with a bunch of dialog the
IDL or the application in one big huge
resource fork need file not his source
files and should not be used like you
used to use resource file you should
wake up to your UI in has been in IBAs
possible because when you wrote a new
file in cocoa when you wrote a new file
all the object in this new file will be
loaded automatically all windows will be
accentuated everything will be loaded at
once on the cabin side there are no
object but still will be loading a lot
of extra XML just to for you to get one
window so if you backup your UI in
multiple nib your nibble goes faster and
also it will facilitate he use if you
have this nicely about box you want to
reuse and another application it's much
easier to just copy your nib file and
your source code and bring it to the
other application instead of trying to
extract your your
window your controller etc so break up
your UI in multiple nib as an example
here I have a cabin application a bad
cabin application which has four windows
and an ammonia bar this application has
a mana bar a main window and about box
connection panel and some craftsman's
panel this is this is bad this is not
the way you should do it what you should
do is that in this case for neither one
with your main window and your main menu
because in this case this is a single
single window applet type of application
with one window in the menu bar so you
put your window and your money back to
your main nib you'd load this UI when
you launch your application then you
need to have a nib with your about box a
nib with your connection panel and a
nibble your preferences if the user
never used your preference or your
ballot box there's no need to load this
nib file top-level objects
qapla will object this is specific for
Coco
in a new file you have this document
window with a bunch of icons and we
talked about the first the files owner
and the first responder which are not
here objects are just 10 proxy object
for object that are outside of the nib
file but here I highlighted three
objects here is a minibar a window and a
controller object this is for cocoa
carbon and not have to worry about
top-level objects too much so typically
this is what you used to have in the nib
file traditionally used to have a
controller on Windows and an minutia
we've added new object essentially to I
think you can Astin shit-ass top-level
object so you can instantiate now a
formatter subclass of an S format so you
can share your matter among multiple
text field usually the way to do that
was to drag will form a turn onto any H
text field and you had a formatter for
each text field now you can share your
formatter
among multiple text field or share them
inside the window we've also added added
a view as a top-level object which means
what we call windowless view it's a view
that stand by itself and it's not
enclosed in any window I will talk later
about that you can also accentuate a
single menu this is very useful for
contextual menu NS view as an outlet
which is a menu if you connect this
outlet to a single menu we automatically
have a contextual menu without doing
anything we also had this feature of a
cable in carbon you can instantiate
basically not instantiate but you can
create menu I'm only bar window and you
can also get a single menu if you want
to use for contextual knowledge so new
type of top-level objects and I will
talk more about the view in a few
minutes though I'm talking about those
top-level objects because of graph
counting you know that cocoa use
reference counting so an object is
created if you call a log in it your
head count is one creating an object in
a nib file that is exactly like calling
a lot in it if you instantiate a window
inside the nib file it's like in your
code cooling and that's window I login
it but
whispers Ixtapa rameters so this is
really creating an object and you get an
object with the ref count of 1 which
means that if you don't do anything you
have a leak because you're adding a nib
file and so that his nipple is not
needed anymore
those object are still there someone
asked to release those objects so the
whole of the who should be the subject
is usually the files owner the way to do
that for example would be to have an
outlet inside your file owner that will
connect to a window or connect to
another object inside your nib and when
the controller decide the files owner
decide that this nib is not they did it
will release those objects this is very
very important
there's one exception a nest window has
this little flag kiddies on clothes
which means that means when I'm close
delegate of myself so it just it is
itself so another an NS window you don't
have to worry about that because if you
set this flag here isn't close it will
go where automatically for all other
object have to be very careful that
someone has to only subject someone has
to have an outlet on this subject and
knows how to release it when you end up
with a neat file table window let's view
this is new interface builder and so
very very useful feature he allows you
to create a view without analyzing
window to do that you simply drag a
custom view you have a custom object on
the palette you just have to drag a
custom view inside your document window
and you have to send me instantiate
an NS view you can then change the class
obviously NS view can be my view
whatever this eliminates the need to
create a window
in a couple of years ago but yet we need
what you have to do is create a window
at one time get an out that I have an
outlet on this window get a get a
pointer to Z to the content view and get
rid of the windows we have to write a
little bit of code to just get a view by
itself is out a window you don't have to
do that anymore now you can just create
a view you can put control inside this
view and you can just as some share this
view by itself which big missing or so
that something that's important a new
feature in anti-phase builder for people
who use cocoa for a while we can also
now
on bed control in a custom view is
something you could not do before you
can only run bad thing into a good box
or something like that you can use now a
custom view as a container so we use
this windowless view as the content view
of an asteroid this is one of the use
edge we have a windowless view there you
can use we know the tree for anything
you want be very careful with the red
counting again this view is going to be
created if you have an outlet with this
view and you'd put this view inside
another of you know the ref count is to
the this coating in Viggo's aware the
ref count of your hue is still one so
it's not going away
you have to be careful of the reference
counting we have the windows view
encoding cabin and we bring that to
Cocoa so he works at cocoa and bring
that in cabin where you'll be able to
create a user pain without a view and be
able to manipulate this user pain and
put it wherever wherever you want so
that's the future feature for cabin post
nib loading in initialization I think
that's one of the question that come up
the ball often on different mailing
lists
I had this subject in an e band I
overheard you need with frame and my ETA
scram is not cold why because the hole
here is do not don't rely on in it in it
with frame or a hit with code to do any
post loading post nib loading
initialization the way to do that is to
implement awake from nib any objection
optimal awake from nib and when we load
a nib file when you a stanch at all
those object the last thing we do is
that we we ask every object do you map
limit awakefromnib objects a yes we call
awake from nib this is the last thing we
do so at this point all object and
instantiated
basing your nib is it it's been
associated all the outlet target action
has been set so you're all the rabbit
are ready to go so never try to override
init init with frame or any piece coder
to do any post need bloating indigestion
amp limit awake from me this is the
right place to do that neat tool
Newton is a handy little tool is a
command-line tool that we have that
allows you to manipulate the content of
a nib file without using a TFS builder
it's a command line tool it works for
both cocoa and Calvin so you can we can
boot can both accept cocoa and carbon
nibs and there are a lot of options we
just added a man page to nip tool so you
have all three option using man page
it's used by fan mirage too deep to nibs
cocoa nibs are binary so farmers cannot
show you the difference between what
changes on him files so what farmers
does is that he invoked near nib to on
those two nibs asking him to convert
those to knead into a textual
representation and then you can
differentiate you can do a diff of those
two nib files with adding we've added a
feature recently to allow localization
of vani file using it using using neat
tool
so let's say that you have a friend in
English nib and you want to translate it
into a French neighbor one way to do
that would be to open your English deep
into NTFS builder and have someone to go
out figuring out where our the strings
trying to find where the strings are so
we can localize those strings there is a
new way to do that now what you can do
is really you can use nip tool and ask
nip to to extract all the strings from
this new file so the output of need to
rebuild a text file that looks like
Hello equal ello close equal close open
a call open but it's a way to extract
all the strength from his nib tool we
can then send this text text file to a
localizer and ask him to translate the
right side of the strings of the equal
sign and when you get back here your
text file localized you can send it back
to dip tool using the original English
nib file and cut a finished nib ID will
know where to put back those strings in
the right place so you may have to go
back and still open the dip file and
readjust some button would mean too
short or too long but the you can make
we can make the requisition a lot more
automatic and in fact it is one way
we're doing that at Apple to localize
nib files we have a process which is a
little more complex than this one that
huge neat tool to localize automatically
all the nib file without any
intervention of an open Janelle so there
is a session first day on how to
localize your application and if you're
interesting a hard to look at look at
that go to this session
update schedule so in the box that came
with Mac OS 10
there was a developer CD and on this in
this on his CD there wasn't a face bill
Direction 2.0 I think I I be was version
1 2004 15 years so we decided it was a
good time to go to 2.0 so this is
version 2.0 we know a ship English on
201 at the other conference and it's
mainly big bug fixing we have some bugs
fixed for web objects as many bug fixes
are no new feature there but we've added
two new example we have an example
called busy palette and simple multi
window this was a both cocoa example the
busy palette is there been a lot of
demand recently for people wanting to
write palettes and we haven't talked
about that today but this sample is a
complete palette example that shows you
how to support undo in your object when
you're working a palette to show you
that how to write an inspectors show you
will show you how to write multiple mode
for the inspector for example when you
dragon a formatter on the text field we
get another inspector so how to add and
spectra to the inspector window
the f4 window but this is a full
complete palette sample that I'm sure a
lot of you will find very useful
there's also a simple multi window
example which I took before showing you
how to write an application with
beautiful window using a nice window
controller interface builder will be
released what really you're doing using
the quaterly developer update so as we
have new features and bug fixing bug
fixes you will see a new version of ib
coming out and I just want to talk
briefly about what's coming up what new
feature we have scheduled for at a phase
builder first we want to concordia
concentrate on the stability of the
product you want make it faster stable
easier to use as far as easier to use
and Scott Scott was talking about that
we got a lot of feedback about how you
added those container you have to
double-click all these things so we are
changing that you'll find a much better
more intuitive way to edit containers we
won't have to double click
all these things be much more natural
we're also changing the UI to define
outlet and action I think a better UI to
define what I would attend actions for
people who are familiar with a face
builder there is a clown Coco's there is
a class tab and right now it shows an
outline view we are also giving you the
choice to use a browser view which is
much easier to navigate and also give
you a search feature so you can type NS
view and it's going nsv and it going to
go to NS view automatically we are also
adding flagging of unconnected outlet
and actions the target actions this is
very useful because sometimes we have if
you have a very complex use of at your
face and you're a lot of menus item lot
of controls you may miss the connection
and sometimes you don't own some wire
application doesn't work so now we will
be showing you what is and not connected
in a a face builder for example it's
very important that if you have a nice
window controller that the the window
out read to be correctly connected to
the window so if you don't do that your
application may not work so we'll be
flagging those unconnected outlet and
actions we want to continue to improve
ppi be at regulation we want to take
advantage of the and extra in PB so this
is something important we like to be
able to use and also we continuing to
close it hot cocoa and cabin frameworks
cocoa and cabin are adding new features
new UI elements and you want to have IB
to always be on top of that always be
ready for you to use those new you guys
and in both cocoa and Calvin so we are
working in fact we are a part of the
cocoa and cabin teams and we we talk
very closely what what changes are met
with those two frameworks to bring you
the latest user interface and we have a
lot more ideas and features coming up
pretty soon so I like to bring back got
faith on stage and I went very very fast
today so we have time for
yes really
thank you very much hungry pretty
amazing stuff the use of interface
builder for carbon and cocoa really
ensures much much better
aqua user interfaces it's an essential
part of the cocoa development and really
helps you use your carbon events to the
greatest effect on the screen right now
information resources again our
information pages for all Mac os10 tools
the project
somebody somebody copy and paste of the
wrong should be the interface builder
webpage there and below that the master
mailing list page for for all the all
the different mailing lists that we
supported Apple
there's project builder users there's
Coco dev there's also carbon dev and the
web objects lists all of which we'll be
using in interface builder a roadmap for
more sessions a carbon Event Manager
right here after this after this session
tomorrow using cocoa actually Thursday
using cocoa and the advanced cocoa
topics and the Mac os10 application
localization and now if I can have the
house lights up people can start coming
up to the microphones to ask their
questions this is my contact information
if you have strategic questions
regarding tools of any sort I am your
technology manager to deal with those
and also for feedback to the Mac os10
Tools groups we have a mailing list
direct a mailing address specifically
for that purpose
you